## About
Fused filament fabrication (FFF) is a popular method of additive manufacturing, where materials are extruded through the 3-D printer nozzle to build 3-D objects. There are many factors that affect the material properties (tension, compression, and bending) of a 3-D printed object. These include print speed, print temperature, layer thickness, print orientation, and the material used for printing. Optimizing the FF printing method requires a detailed study of the extrusion temperature and material cooling rate. However, obtaining accurate and precise temperature information from actual 3-D printed objects can be expensive and time consuming. Our study introduces simulated data to replicate various real-world printing scenarios and shapes, with the aim to explore the geometric factors that inform process outcomes. The first phase of our research is to compare simulated data against the real 3-D printed data having similar shape and printing parameters. This is accomplished by clustering the thermal history of external locations around the 3-D objects and comparing the clusters from the simulated objects with those of real 3-D printed objects. In this repository, we present a functioning data parsing, analysis and clustering pipeline. Our program processes data from Abaqus FEA software and implements K-means clustering with dynamic time warping (DTW) as a distance metric to group nodes within the simulated data. We compare and contrast the clustering results of the simulated data with those from actual 3-D printed data and highlight its similarity and differences in this report. 


https://analysis.composites.maine.edu/jupyter/hub/login